# Webpack TSC meeting \#1 \- Mon 28th April 2025

# Present

1. Even Stensberg ([https://twitter.com/evenstensberg](https://twitter.com/evenstensberg))  
2. Nitin Kumar ([https://x.com/snitin315](https://x.com/snitin315) )  
3. Claudio Wunder ([https://github.com/ovflowd](https://github.com/ovflowd))  
4. Sean Larkin ([https://github.com/thelarkinn](https://github.com/thelarkinn))   
5. Alexander Akait ([https://github.com/aleksander-akait](https://github.com/aleksander-akait))

# Agenda

First TSC meeting will cover how we manage the TSC, meeting notes and in general introduction to the new governance model. Some parts like gsoc discussion will be private. A preliminary agenda below:

1. Changing meeting platform (public)  
2. Information of how meetings will be done (public)  
3. Google Summer of code (private)  
4. Meeting repository \+ meeting administration (public/private)  
5. Standardize payout report dates and process. (private)  
6. Working groups (public)  
7. Roadmapping (public)  
8. Meeting Transcript Generator \+ Meeting Agenda Bot  
   1. [https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/main/scripts/generate-transcript.js](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/main/scripts/generate-transcript.js)  
      1. Allows us generate transcripts of meetings out of Discord  
      2. Source package: [https://github.com/kaicataldo/discord-transcript-generator](https://github.com/kaicataldo/discord-transcript-generator)  
      3. Executed by this workflow: [https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/main/.github/workflows/generate-transcript.yml](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/main/.github/workflows/generate-transcript.yml)  
   2. [https://github.com/nodejs/create-node-meeting-artifacts](https://github.com/nodejs/create-node-meeting-artifacts)  
      1. This currently runs under Michael Dawson’s local machine, and needs to be converted into GHA  
      2. Example of generated agenda: [https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/issues/1351](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/issues/1351)

## 

## 

## 

## \#1 \- Changing meeting platform

Concerns raised around the current meeting platform, due to being inaccessible to some of the TSC members. Nitin raised that this information (of where TSC meetings happen) should also be published within the Webpack website.

## \#2 \- Information on how meetings will be done

Biweekly meetings, agenda set the week before each meeting. Sean suggests that we create a discussion thread on github about each meeting and we get feedback, if any.

## \#3 \- Google Summer of Code

Private topic

## \# 4 Meeting repository \+ meeting administration

We use the webpack/tsc for meeting notes, meeting invites and agenda will be issued as tickets in the repository. For this implementation we go through that in \#8.

## \# 5 Standardize payout report dates and process.

Private topic

## \# 6 Working groups

Even: Working Groups will let us partition work done on different parts of the org, and we can have “local” roadmaps for each working group. The TSC can then have “higher” roadmapping goals that are implemented by each WG.

Nitin: We dont have a lot of contributors, so Alex and me can steer this work. We can create WG for repositories later when we get more contributors

Even: Trying to create a more broad WG for webpack initially, like working groups for core or infra.

Nitin: TSC should have publish privileges

Even: Agreed, but as WGs are established they should have scoped access. Nitin agrees.

Alex: No input all good

Even: Roadmapping and WG are related so we continue  
 

## \# 7 Roadmapping

Even: Roadmapping is a core function of the tsc and will impact how webpack is maintained.  
Nitin: We use [https://github.com/orgs/webpack/projects/4](https://github.com/orgs/webpack/projects/4) but not sure if actively maintained.  
Alex: We can discuss our roadmapping in tsc meetings  
Even: Kanban board is just for webpack core, we should have a larger roadmap that covers the org  
Nitin: Eslint has a board for the entire org  
Even: Thinks this is good  
Even: OKRs are a bit out of scope, but github milestones are a good way to approach this problem  
Nitin and Even discuss milestones to see if it is a good fit. A large portion of the milestoning will depend on webpack core and not independent releases  
Nitin: **Proposes github projects instead**  
Even: good idea  
Sean: Agrees to the github projects alternative  
Even: Interesting section of our maintenance work because Working groups and local github projects for each repo would do good.  
Alex: Positive to the approach, but might be irrelevant if there's too few contributors  
Nitin: **Need to automate releasing because we do it manually now**   
*Nitin will look into automated releases*  
Even: We will create a larger WG and github projects for those.

Alex: **One board for all main tasks on webpack (Nitin will work on this)**

## \# 8 Meeting Transcript Generator \+ Meeting Agenda Bot

Claudio will look at automating the meeting notes on google docs to export them into our github repository (tsc) that will consist of all meeting notes. Even will give privileges to Claudio for him to finish this task. Even and Claudio will try to implement some of the infrastructure that the Cross Project Council has for webpack to make meeting generation, invites and similar easier for the webpack TSC.

# Summary

- Nitin will send PR to update meeting platform  
- Nitin will look into automated releases  
- Claudio and Even will look into meeting admin  
- Claudio and Even will add meeting notes to correct repo  
- Claudio, Even, Alex, Nitin will add points (and doc) to discuss in next TSC meeting